Refactor relationship pages and add single relationships description (#293)
neo4j/docs-graphql: modules/ROOT/pages/relationships/interfaces.adoc

[[type-definitions-interfaces]]
= Interface types

> :page-aliases: type-definitions/interfaces.adoc, type-definitions/types/interfaces.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:page-aliases: type-definitions/interfaces.adoc
```

:description: This page describes how to use and define interfaces on relationship fields.

> This page describes how to use Interfaces in the context of Relationships, as well as exemplifies how to use them in queries and mutations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to use interfaces in the context of relationships, and exemplifies how to use them in queries and mutations.
```

== Data model

> Take the following graph as an example in which a `Person` type has two different relationship types, which can connect it to a both a `Movie` and a `Series` type. The *ACTED_IN* relationship has different properties depending on the target node type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take the following graph as an example in which a `Person` type has two different relationship types, which can connect it to a both a `Movie` and a `Series` type.
The `ACTED_IN` relationship has different properties depending on the target node type.
```

image::relationships/relationship-interface.png[title="Model of a Person node connected to both Movie and Series nodes through the ACTED_IN relationship. The ACTED_IN relationship properties differ between the two target node types.",width=80%]

== Sample database data

> For the sake of query result examples, let's consider a hypothetical database consisting of the following sample data, which follows the data model described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a database consisting of the following sample data, which follows the data model described above.
```

image::relationships/data/Person-2Movie-2Series-ActedIn.png[title="Sample database data of a Person node (shown in orange) that has ACTED_IN relationships to two Movies (shown in blue) and two Series (shown in green)", height=70%]

> == Relationships on an Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Relationships on an interface
```

> We see a lot of commonality between the `Movie` and `Series` types. This commonality can be captured by defining an interface `Production`, implemented by both `Movie` and `Series`, and declaring the relationship field `actors` on that interface.

Reviewer 2: Could this be a bit redundant?

We probably should explain and introduce interfaces in a interfaces general page, and this should probably focus on how relationships interact with these

Author: I'm unsure if a general Interfaces page makes sense as there would be very little content. 
Maybe we could make a dedicated page "Modelling your data" and put the cardinality things there too?

Author: I think it's a good idea, but we can think about the best approach to do this later.

> We see a lot of commonality between the `Movie` and `Series` types. This commonality can be captured by defining an interface `Production`, implemented by both `Movie` and `Series`, and declaring the relationship field `actors` on that interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Movie` and `Series` types are quite similar.
What they have in common can be captured by defining an interface `Production`, implemented by both `Movie` and `Series`, and declaring the relationship field `actors` on that interface.
```

This allows you to query the relationship from the interface, while supporting the flexibility of relationship details such as type and properties to be defined in the concrete types. 

=== `@declareRelationship`

The `@relationship` directive can only be used on fields of object types. 

> If you want to model relationships on interfaces, which will then be implemented by concrete object types, you can use the `@declareRelationship` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to model relationships on interfaces, which is then implemented by concrete object types, you can use the `@declareRelationship` directive.
```

> For more information, see xref::/directives/index.adoc#_declarerelationship[`@declareRelationship`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> .Declaring a relationship field on an Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Declaring a relationship field on an interface
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
interface Production {
  title: String!
  actors: [Person!]! @declareRelationship
}

type Person @node {
  name: String!
}
----

=== Implementing the declared relationship

> The concrete types implementing the `Production` interface must then define their own relationship details such as type and properties. This captures their nuances, while still being queryable as a field of the `Production` interface. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The concrete types implementing the `Production` interface must then define their own relationship details such as type and properties.
This captures their nuances, while still being queryable as a field of the `Production` interface. 
```

Notice how the `ACTED_IN` relationship differs between `ActedInSeries` and `ActedIn`. 

.Extending the type definition with `Movie` and `Series` implementing the `Production` Interface
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
interface Production {
  title: String!
  actors: [Person!]! @declareRelationship
}

type Movie implements Production @node {
  title: String!
  released: Int!
  actors: [Person!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: IN)
}

type Series implements Production @node {
  title: String!
  episodes: Int!
  actors: [Person!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedInSeries", direction: IN)
}

type ActedIn @relationshipProperties {
  roles: [String!]!
}

type ActedInSeries @relationshipProperties {
  roles: [String!]!
  episodes: [Int!]!
}

type Person @node {
  name: String!
}
----

[CAUTION]
====

> A declared relationship needs to be implemented in all concrete types that implement the interface, just like any other field on an interface type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A declared relationship must be implemented in all concrete types that implement the interface, just like any other field on an interface type. 
```

> In other words, the `actors` field needs to be implemented in both the `Movie` and `Series` types, and decorated with the `@relationship` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, the `actors` field must be implemented in both the `Movie` and `Series` types, and decorated with the `@relationship` directive.
```

====

> === Querying an Interface relationship

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Querying an interface relationship
```

> When querying a relationship field declared on an interface, while the relationship field is accessible from the interface level, the returned data will be based on the concrete types that implement the interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When querying a relationship field declared on an interface, while the relationship field is accessible from the interface level, the returned data is based on the concrete types that implement the interface.
```

.The generated query fields, ignoring the `Person` type
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
# Top-level interface query fields
productions(limit: Int, offset: Int, sort: [ProductionSort!], where: ProductionWhere): [Production!]!
productionsConnection(after: String, first: Int, sort: [ProductionSort!], where: ProductionWhere): ProductionsConnection!
# Top-level concrete type query fields
movies(limit: Int, offset: Int, sort: [MovieSort!], where: MovieWhere): [Movie!]!
moviesConnection(after: String, first: Int, sort: [MovieSort!], where: MovieWhere): MoviesConnection!
series(limit: Int, offset: Int, sort: [SeriesSort!], where: SeriesWhere): [Series!]!
seriesConnection(after: String, first: Int, sort: [SeriesSort!], where: SeriesWhere): SeriesConnection!
----

> We are interested in the `productions` and `productionsConnection` query fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The focus is on the `productions` and `productionsConnection` query fields.
```

.Get Production nodes with related Actor nodes
====
This query returns a sorted list of up to 10 productions, that is a mix of `Movie` and `Series` nodes, with their related actors. 

Notice the use of inline fragments to access the fields specific to the concrete types.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
  productions(limit: 10, sort: { title: ASC }) {
    title
    ... on Movie {
      released
    }
    actors {
      name
    }
  }
}
----

> Results for the above query, considering the sample data of this page, would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the sample data of this page, the result of the query is the following:
```

[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const result = {
    data: {
         productions: [
                {
                    title: "Argo",
                    released: 2012,
                    actors: [{ name: "Ben Affleck" }],
                },
                {
                    title: "Gone Girl",
                    released: 2014,
                    actors: [{ name: "Ben Affleck" }],
                },
                {
                    title: "The Voyage of the Mimi",
                    actors: [{ name: "Ben Affleck" }],
                },
                {
                    title: "Buffy the Vampire Slayer",
                    actors: [{ name: "Ben Affleck" }],
                },
            ],
    },
};
----
====

.Get Production nodes with related Actor nodes and relationship properties
====

> The query above will return a sorted list of up to 10 productions, that is a mix of `Movie` and `Series` nodes, with their related actors along with the relationship properties of the `ACTED_IN` relationship. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query above returns a sorted list of up to 10 productions, that is a mix of `Movie` and `Series` nodes, with their related actors along with the relationship properties of the `ACTED_IN` relationship. 
```

> Because of the different relationship properties type, `ActedIn` and `ActedInSeries`, the query needs to use inline fragments to access the relationship properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of the different relationship properties type, `ActedIn` and `ActedInSeries`, the query must use inline fragments to access the relationship properties.
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
  productionsConnection(first: 10, sort: [{ title: ASC }]) {
    edges {
      node {
        title
        actorsConnection(first: 2, sort: { node: { name: ASC } }) {
          edges {
            node {
              name
            }
            properties {
              ... on ActedIn {
                roles
              }
              ... on ActedInSeries {
                roles
                episodes
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

> For example, the response for the above query, considering the sample data of this page, would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the sample data of this page, the response of the query is the following:
```

                                      },
                                      properties: {
                                          roles: ["Nick Dunne"],
                                      },
                                  },
                              ],
                          },
                      },
                  },
                  {
                      node: {
                          title: "The Voyage of the Mimi",
                          actorsConnection: {
                              edges: [
                                  {
                                      node: {
                                          name: "Ben Affleck",
                                      },
                                      properties: {
                                          roles: ["C.T. Granville"],
                                          episodes: 7,
                                      },
                                  },
                              ],
                          },
                      },
                  },
              ],
          },
    },
};
----
====

> == Relationships to an Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Relationships to an interface
```

> For the data model described at the beginning of this chapter, the `Person` type nodes are connected to `Movie` and `Series` nodes but we have not modelled this relationship in the GraphQL schema yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the data model described at the beginning of this chapter, the `Person` type nodes are connected to `Movie` and `Series` nodes but this relationship has not been modeled in the GraphQL schema yet.
```

> These relationships can be modelled by adding relationship fields to the `Person` type that point to the `Production` interface, and then implementing the relationship details in the concrete types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do so by adding relationship fields to the `Person` type that point to the `Production` interface, and then implementing the relationship details in the concrete types. 
```

.Extending the `Person` type with new relationship fields
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Person @node {
  name: String!
  born: Int!
  # relationship to an interface
  actedIn: [Production!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: OUT)
}
----

> === Querying relationships to an Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Querying the relationships of an interface
```

> When querying a relationship field of an Interface type, the Interface fields can be queried directly as these are conceptually shared by all the implementations of the Interface, for example `title` for `Production`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When querying a relationship field of an interface type, the interface fields can be queried directly as these are conceptually shared by all the implementations of the interface, for example `title` for `Production`.
```

> To query fields specific to the concrete types implementing the Interface, inline fragments need to be used, for example `released` for `Movie` and `episodes` for `Series`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To query fields specific to the concrete types implementing the interface, inline fragments must be used, for example `released` for `Movie` and `episodes` for `Series`.
```

.Get all Person nodes with all Production nodes they ACTED_IN
====
Notice the use of inline fragments to access the fields specific to the concrete types `Movie` and `Series`.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    people {
        name
        actedIn {
            title
            ... on Movie {
                released
            }
            ... on Series {
                episodes
            }
        }
    }
}
----

====

> === Filtering for specific implementations of the Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Filtering for specific implementations of the interface
```

> When querying a relationship field of an Interface type, receiving nodes of all implementing types is not mandatory. If desired, you can request specific node types by using the `typename` filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When querying a relationship field of an interface type, receiving nodes of all implementing types is not mandatory.
If desired, you can request specific node types by using the `typename` filter.
```

.Get all Person nodes with Production nodes they ACTED_IN filtered by Movie type
====
Notice the typename filter and the use of inline fragments to access the fields specific to the concrete type `Movie`.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
  people {
    name
    actedIn(where: { typename: [Movie] }) {
      title
      ... on Movie {
        released
      }
    }
  }
}
----
====

> === Creating a relationship to an Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Creating a relationship to an interface
```

> When creating a relationship to an Interface type, the concrete type of the node that is being connected needs to be specified in the mutation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a relationship to an interface type, the concrete type of the node that is being connected must be specified in the mutation.
```

.Create a Person node with related Production nodes
====
Notice the specification of the concrete type (`Movie` or `Series`) of the node that is being created.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation CreateActorAndProductions {
  createPeople(
    input: [
      {
        name: "Ben Affleck"
        actedIn: {
          create: [
            {
              edge: { roles: ["Tony Mendez"] }
              node: { Movie: { title: "Argo", released: 2012 } }
            }
            {
              edge: { roles: ["Nick Dunne"] }
              node: { Movie: { title: "Gone Girl", released: 2014 } }
            }
            {
              edge: { roles: ["Basketball Player #10"] }
              node: { Series: { title: "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", episodes: 144 } }
            }
            {
              edge: { roles: ["C.T. Granville"] }
              node: { Series: { title: "The Voyage of the Mimi", episodes: 7 } }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  ) {
        people {
            name
        }
    }
}
----
====

> === Updating a relationship to an Interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Updating a relationship to an interface
```

> Operations on interfaces are abstract until you instruct them not to be. 

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this means 😅

image::relationships/data/Person-Movie-Series-creation.png[title="New disconnected nodes in the database (Left); Desired connections (Right)", height=70%]

> We're adding the newly released `Movie` "Henry Danger" to the database, and we want to connect it to the `Person` node `Jace Norman` through an `ACTED_IN` relationship with the role "Henry Hart". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mutation below adds the newly released `Movie` "Henry Danger" to the database, and connects it to the `Person` node `Jace Norman` through an `ACTED_IN` relationship with the role "Henry Hart". 
```

> There already exists a `Series` node with the same title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that a `Series` node with the same title already exists.
```

> To achieve the desired connections, we can use the typename filter in the filters of an update mutation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve the desired connections, use the `typename` filter in the filters of an update mutation.
```

.Update Person nodes and create ACTED_IN relationships to Production nodes filtered by Movie type
====
Notice the use of the typename filter to only target `Movie` nodes. 

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
  updatePeople(
    where: { name: { eq: "Jace Norman" } }
    update: {
      actedIn: [
        {
          connect: [
            {
              edge: { roles: ["Henry Hart"] }
              where: {
                node: {
                  typename: [Movie],
                  title: { eq: "Henry Danger" }
                },
              },
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    }
  ) {
    info {
      relationshipsCreated
    }
  }
}
----
====

> If the relationship between `Person` and `Movie` already exists in the database, we can ensure the relationship properties are correct depending on the type of the connected node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the relationship between `Person` and `Movie` already exists in the database, make sure the relationship properties are correct depending on the type of the connected node.
```

.Update Person nodes and update the ACTED_IN relationships to any Production nodes with relationship properties based on the properties type
====

> Notice the edge properties are updated with different values depending on the typename of the connected node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the edge properties are updated with different values depending on the `typename` of the connected node.
```
